-----------------------------------------
Transition is a short-hand property to specify the properties mentioned below

transition

Description

transition-property

Includes CSS3 properties that need to be transited over a period of time

For example height, width, background, color, etc

It accepts a comma-separated list of properties to be transited.

It accepts the “all” keyword as a value that specifies that all the properties need to be transited.

transition-duration

Sets the duration (sec/msec) of transition. If this duration is not mentioned then the transition will not have any effect.

transition-timing-function

Controls the pace/speed of the transition. The key terms used are linear, ease, ease-in, ease-out, ease-in-out, steps.

transition-delay

Specifies the delay before starting the transition.

---------------
The transition timing function is used to specify the pace/speed of transition.

This can be done in 2 ways.

Specifying the pre-defined functions.

transition-timing-function

Description

ease

Transition speed will be slow at the start and end and fast pace in between.

linear

Transition speed will be the same throughout.

ease-in

Transition speed will be slow at the start.

ease-out

Transition speed will be slow at the end.

ease-in-out

Transition with slow speed at the start and end and linear speed in between

steps

Allows specifying intervals for the timing function.

Defining a custom function by specifying four co-ordinates to define a cubic bezier curve.

The Cubic Bezier curve is defined by 4 points P0, P1, P2, and P3.
P0 and P3 are the start and end of the curve hence they have values 0 and 1 by default. We specify the x and y coordinate values for P1 and P2 to the cubic bezier curve function.

cubic-bezier(x1,y1,x2,y2)
In the above syntax,
x1,y1,x2, and y2 are the x and y-coordinates of points P1 and P2.
transition-timing-function: ease, linear;
cubic-bezier(0,1.1,0.8,4)
 
In the above example,

Multiple transition functions can be specified for multiple properties by separating them with a comma.
 
---------------------


