
Animation is a short-hand property to specify the properties mentioned below

animation property

Description

animation-name

Every animation is given a name using which it is attached to an element.

animation-duration

The time span for an animation to complete one iteration.

animation-timing

Controls the pace/ speed of the animation. The key terms used are linear, ease, ease-in, ease-out, ease-in-out.

animation-delay

Specifies the delay before starting the animation.

animation-iteration-count

Specifies the number of iterations the animation will play.

The Default value is 1.

animation-direction

The default value is normal which plays the animation in the forward direction. Takes the value reverse which plays the animation in backward direction Takes the value alternate which plays the animation in the forward direction every odd time and backward direction even time

Takes value alternate-reverse which plays the animation in reverse direction every odd time and forward direction even time

play-state

Explains the state of animation. Can take values ‘paused’ or ‘running’.

Paused will pause the animation. Running will resume the animation from where it was paused.

fill-mode

The property is used to describe what occurs before the animations start & after the animation ends.

 

fill-mode property

Description

none

Default value. The properties remain in their original until the animation starts and once the animation ends the properties return to their original state.

forwards

Once the animation ends (determined by animation-iteration-count), the properties retain the final keyframe values.

backwards

The animation will apply the property values defined in the keyframe that will start the first iteration of the animation, during the period defined by animation-delay. These are either the values of the from keyframe (when animation-direction is "normal" or "alternate") or those of the to keyframe (when animation-direction is "reverse" or "alternate-reverse")

both

The animation will follow the rules of both forwards and backwards properties. That is, it will extend the animation properties in both directions